{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9\par
software Engineering week1 assignment\par
\par
Software engineering \b0 is the branch of computer science that involves designing, developing, maintaining, testing, and managing software systems. software engineers use principles, methodologies, and tools that are applied systematically to produce reliable, efficient, and maintainable software that meets the needs of users and stakeholders.\par
\b importance of software engineering in the technology industry. \b0\par
\b Compliance and Security: \b0 Due to increased threats in modern technology, software engineering offers cybersecurity to protect against threats.\par
\b innovation: \b0 software engineering enables companies to innovate faster while maintaining quality and reliability.\par
\b Collaboration:  \b0 Software engineering facilitates collaboration among teams such as developers, designers, testers, and project managers ensuring quality outcomes. \par
\b Quality Assurance: \b0 Software engineering practices ensure reliable and secure high-performance software.\par
 \b Cost-Effectiveness: \b0 Due to proper planning and testing, software engineering reduces costs in software development.\par
\b Efficiency: \b0 engineering principles allow engineers to create optimized solutions that reduce resource usage.\par
\b Scalability: \b0 Software engineering allows applications to grow and evolve with the needs of the business.\par
\b key milestones in the evolution of software engineering\b0\par
 Structured Programming-  This approach emphasizes the use of control structures to code.\par
Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) - this approach focuses more on objects rather than procedures in writing code.\par
 Agile Methodologies- This approach allowed teams to deliver software incrementally, providing value to customers faster and enabling more frequent feedback and adjustments. \par
\b phases of the Software Development Life Cycle:\par
1. Planning: \b0\par
2. Requirements Analysis\par
3. Design\par
4. Implementation (Coding)\par
5. Testing\par
6. Deployment.\par
7.  Maintenance\par
\par
\b Comparison between  Waterfall and Agile methodologies.\par
Waterfall \b0 is a sequential and linear approach to software development. It divides the development process into phases. i.e.  planning, design, implementation, testing, deployment, and maintenance.\par
\par
\b Agile methodology \b0 is an iterative and incremental approach to software development that emphasizes flexibility, collaboration, and customer feedback.Development is broken into small, manageable units.\par
\b Flexibility\b0 : Waterfall is rigid and change-resistant; Agile embraces change and continuous improvement.\par
\b Documentation: \b0 Waterfall emphasizes detailed documentation, whereas Agile focuses more on working software and less on exhaustive documentation.\par
\b Testing: \b0 In Waterfall, testing is done after development, while Agile integrates testing throughout the development cycle.\par
\b Customer Involvement\b0 : Waterfall typically involves customers early in the process, while Agile requires ongoing customer involvement\par
\b  Scenarios where each  approach would be appropriate:\b0\par
Agile Methodology-Complex and Evolving Projects\par
                                        -User-Focused Development:\par
                                        -Rapid Development:\par
Waterfall Methodology-Well-Defined Projects\par
                                                 -Regulated Environments\par
                                                 -Small or Simple Projects\par
\par
\b Roles of a software developer\par
\b0 1. Coding\par
2. Design\par
3.  Testing\par
4. Collaboration\par
5. Documentation\par
6. Maintenance\par
7. Version Control\b\par
Roles of a quality assurance engineer\par
\b0 1. Test Planning\par
2. Manual Testing\par
3. Automated Testing\par
3. Defect Tracking\par
4. Regression Testing\par
5. User Acceptance Testing \par
6. Performance Testing\par
7. Reporting\b\par
Roles of a project manager\par
\b0 1. Project Planning\par
2. Resource Management\par
3. Risk Management\par
4. Communication\par
5. Team Coordination\par
6. Task Management\par
7. Quality Assurance\par
8. Budget Management\par
9. Stakeholder Management\par
10. Project Closure\par
\b  Importance of Integrated Development Environments (IDEs) and Version Control Systems (VCS) in the software development process\par
\b0 1. Code editing automation\par
It contains many intelligent features that allow programmers to write the source code correctly.\par
2. Syntax highlighting\par
It shows syntax errors by highlighting them using different colors making them readable.\par
3. Refactoring support\par
It allows restructuring the source code to make it more efficient and readable without changing its core functionality\par
4. Compilation\par
 Integrated Development Environments converts human-readable code into machine code from within the application.\par
5. Local build automation\par
It increases programmer productivity by performing repeatable development tasks\par
6. Intelligent code completion\par
make suggestions to complete a code statement when the developer begins typing.\par
7. Debugging\par
It shows errors to programmers while writing the codes.\par
Version control systems allow developers to work together on the same project simultaneously each making their changes in a controlled and isolated manner.\par
It can create separate branches for experimentation without interfering with the main\par
It keeps a comprehensive history of all changes made to the project, including who made the changes and why.\par
version control systems provide the ability to revert to previous versions whenever new features introduce bugs.\par
An example  of IDE is Visual Studio, notepad, Sublime Text, etc\par
An example of a version control system is GitHub.\par
\b  Common challenges faced by software engineers\par
\b0 1. The rapid advancement of technology\par
Rapid advancement in technology creates additional pressure on software developers. To adapt to this new trends  and  have competitive advantage becomes a problem.\par
This can be overcomed by Performing proper market research and competitors' analysis\par
2. Increasing customer demands in the development stage\par
The increasing demand of customers is among the software engineering coding challenges faced  by developers.\par
3. Time limitation\par
The deadlines set for developers to complete a task are incredibly short and this is one of the major challenges faced by programmers\par
4. Understanding the large and complex system requirements is difficult\par
Engineers face challenges when dealing with customers who have personal ideas about the software they want to use. And since there might be no direct contact this becomes a challenge.\par
This can be overcome Creating informative and well-structured conversations with end consumers\par
5. Rapid Technological Change\par
Developers  are required  to advance and update their skills to keep pace with the rapid evolution of technology. New programming languages, frameworks, and tools frequently come up, making it challenging to keep on upgrading.\par
\b Different types of testing and their importance in software quality assurance.\par
\b0 1. Unit testing\par
This is where each component is tested individually to ensure its functionality. This helps to determine whether the application functions as designed. The importance of this testing phase is that it can be run every time a piece of code is changed, allowing issues to be resolved as quickly as possible.\par
2.  Integration Testing\par
Allow software developers to test group units integrated into the system. It helps identify issues arising from coding errors or integration between modules. \par
3.  System Testing\par
This one tests the whole application where all components are assessed against specific business requirements. It evaluates whether the system has complied with all of the outlined requirements and sees that it meets Quality standards.\par
4. Acceptance Testing\par
This involves testing the system\rquote s Functional and Non-functional aspects, such as performance,  accessibility, compatibility, reliability. security and usability.It ensures that the system is ready for deployment.\par
Prompt engineering is the practice of designing and refining prompts, questions or instructions. It is the process of giving instructions to a generative AI to help produce requested results.\par
\par
\b Importance of prompt engineering  in interacting with AI models\b0\par
Has increased jobs recently due to AI advancements.\par
Help make AI applications more efficient and effective.\par
\b An example of a vague prompt and then improve it by making it clear, specific, and concise. Explain why the improved prompt is more effective.\b0\par
"Create a report on our sales."\par
"Create a 5-page report that analyzes our Q2 2024 sales performance. Include a breakdown of revenue by product category, regional sales trends, and a comparison to Q1 2024. Provide visual charts for each section and highlight key factors that influence  sales growth or decline\b ."\par
\b0  The improved prompt has  increased: Clarity, Specificity, Conciseness, and Measurable Outcomes.\b\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\b0\par
\par
\b\par
\b0\par
}
 